NEW: IsPressed, WasPressedThisFrame, WasReleasedThisFrame (#1209)
Unity-Technologies/InputSystem: Packages/com.unity.inputsystem/Documentation~/Interactions.md

If multiple Interactions are present on a single Binding or Action, then the Input System checks the Interactions in the order they are present on the Binding. The code example [above](#operation) illustrates this example. The Binding on the `fireAction` Action has two Interactions: `WithInteractions("tap;slowTap")`. The [tap](#tap) Interaction gets a first chance at interpreting the input from the Action. If the button is pressed, the Action calls the `Started` callback on the tap Interaction. If the user keeps holding the button, the tap Interaction times out, and the Action calls the [`Canceled`](../api/UnityEngine.InputSystem.InputAction.html#UnityEngine_InputSystem_InputAction_canceled) callback for the tap Interaction and starts processing the [slow tap](#slowtap) Interaction (which now receives a `Started` callback).

> At any one time, only one Interaction can be "driving" the action, i.e. gets to determine the action's current [`phase`](../api/UnityEngine.InputSystem.InputAction.html#UnityEngine_InputSystem_InputAction_phase). If an Interaction higher up in the stack cancels, Interactions lower down in the stack get a chance at taking over.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At any one time, only one Interaction can be "driving" the action (that is, it gets to determine the action's current [`phase`](../api/UnityEngine.InputSystem.InputAction.html#UnityEngine_InputSystem_InputAction_phase)). If an Interaction higher up in the stack cancels, Interactions lower down in the stack can take over.
```

Reviewer: Style pointer: we don't use i.e. (see [Style Guide](https://unity-docs.gitbook.io/style-guide/terminology/terminology-list#i) for more information).

Author: Pushed

### Timeouts

> Interactions may require to wait a certain time for a specific input to occur or to not occur. An example of this is the [Hold](#hold) interaction which, after a button is pressed, has to wait for a set [duration](../api/UnityEngine.InputSystem.Interactions.HoldInteraction.html#UnityEngine_InputSystem_Interactions_HoldInteraction_duration) until the "hold" is complete. To do this, an interaction will install a timeout using [`SetTimeout`](../api/UnityEngine.InputSystem.InputInteractionContext.html#UnityEngine_InputSystem_InputInteractionContext_SetTimeout_System_Single_).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Interactions might need to wait a certain time for a specific input to occur or to not occur. An example of this is the [Hold](#hold) interaction which, after a button is pressed, has to wait for a set [duration](../api/UnityEngine.InputSystem.Interactions.HoldInteraction.html#UnityEngine_InputSystem_Interactions_HoldInteraction_duration) until the "hold" is complete. To do this, an interaction installs a timeout using [`SetTimeout`](../api/UnityEngine.InputSystem.InputInteractionContext.html#UnityEngine_InputSystem_InputInteractionContext_SetTimeout_System_Single_).
```

Author: Pushed

> It can be useful to know how much of a timeout is left for an interaction to complete. For example, you may want to display a bar in the UI that is charging up while the interaction is waiting to complete. You can query the percentage to which a timeout has completed using [`GetTimeoutCompletionPercentage`](../api/UnityEngine.InputSystem.InputAction.html#UnityEngine_InputSystem_InputAction_GetTimeoutCompletionPercentage_).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It can be useful to know how much of a timeout is left for an interaction to complete. For example, you might want to display a bar in the UI that is charging up while the interaction is waiting to complete. To query the percentage to which a timeout has completed, use [`GetTimeoutCompletionPercentage`](../api/UnityEngine.InputSystem.InputAction.html#UnityEngine_InputSystem_InputAction_GetTimeoutCompletionPercentage_).
```

Author: Pushed

```CSharp
// Returns a value between 0 (inclusive) and 1 (inclusive).
var warpActionCompletion = playerInput.actions["warp"].GetTimeoutCompletionPercentage();
```

> Note that each Interaction can have its own separate timeout (but only a single one at any one time). If [multiple interactions](#multiple-interactions-on-a-binding) are in effect, then [`GetTimeoutCompletionPercentage`](../api/UnityEngine.InputSystem.InputAction.html#UnityEngine_InputSystem_InputAction_GetTimeoutCompletionPercentage_) will use the timeout of only the one interaction that is currently driving the action.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that each Interaction can have its own separate timeout (but only a single one at any one time). If [multiple interactions](#multiple-interactions-on-a-binding) are in effect, then [`GetTimeoutCompletionPercentage`](../api/UnityEngine.InputSystem.InputAction.html#UnityEngine_InputSystem_InputAction_GetTimeoutCompletionPercentage_) will only use the timeout of the one interaction that is currently driving the action.
```

Author: Pushed

> Some Interactions may involve multiple timeouts in succession. In this case, knowing only the completion of the currently running timeout (if any) is often not useful. An example is [`MultiTapInteraction`](../api/UnityEngine.InputSystem.Interactions.MultiTapInteraction.html) which involves a timeout on each individual tap as well as a timeout in-between taps. The Interaction is complete only after a full tap sequence has been performed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some Interactions might involve multiple timeouts in succession. In this case, knowing only the completion of the currently running timeout (if any) is often not useful. An example is [`MultiTapInteraction`](../api/UnityEngine.InputSystem.Interactions.MultiTapInteraction.html), which involves a timeout on each individual tap, as well as a timeout in-between taps. The Interaction is complete only after a full tap sequence has been performed.
```

Author: Pushed

> An Interaction can inform the Input System of the total time it will run timeouts for using [`SetTotalTimeoutCompletionTime`](../api/UnityEngine.InputSystem.InputInteractionContext.html#UnityEngine_InputSystem_InputInteractionContext_SetTotalTimeoutCompletionTime_System_Single_).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An Interaction can use [`SetTotalTimeoutCompletionTime`](../api/UnityEngine.InputSystem.InputInteractionContext.html#UnityEngine_InputSystem_InputInteractionContext_SetTotalTimeoutCompletionTime_System_Single_) to inform the Input System of the total time it will run timeouts for.
```

Author: Pushed

>__Note__: The built-in Interactions operate on Control actuation and don't use Control values directly. The Input System evaluates the `pressPoint` parameters against the magnitude of the Control actuation. This means you can use these Interactions on any Control which has a magnitude, such as sticks, and not just on buttons.

> The following diagram shows the behavior of the built-in interactions for a simple button press.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following diagram shows the behavior of the built-in Interactions for a simple button press.
```

Author: Pushed

2. For as long as the bound Control remains actuated, the Action stays in `Started` and triggers `Performed` whenever the value of the Control changes (that is, one call occurs to [`InputAction.performed`](../api/UnityEngine.InputSystem.InputAction.html#UnityEngine_InputSystem_InputAction_performed)).
3. When the bound Control stops being actuated, the Action goes to `Canceled` and then back to `Waiting`. One call occurs to [`InputAction.canceled`](../api/UnityEngine.InputSystem.InputAction.html#UnityEngine_InputSystem_InputAction_canceled).

[`Button`](Actions.md#button) type Actions have the following behavior:

1. As soon as a bound Control becomes [actuated](Controls.md#control-actuation), the Action goes from `Waiting` to `Started`. One callback occurs on [`InputAction.started`](../api/UnityEngine.InputSystem.InputAction.html#UnityEngine_InputSystem_InputAction_started).

> 2. If a Control then reaches or exceeds the button press threshold (the default for which is defined in the [input settings](../api/UnityEngine.InputSystem.InputSettings.html#UnityEngine_InputSystem_InputSettings_defaultButtonPressPoint); however, an individual control may [override](../api/UnityEngine.InputSystem.Controls.ButtonControl.html#UnityEngine_InputSystem_Controls_ButtonControl_pressPoint) this value), the Action goes from `Started` to `Performed`. One callback occurs on [`InputAction.performed`](../api/UnityEngine.InputSystem.InputAction.html#UnityEngine_InputSystem_InputAction_performed).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. If a Control then reaches or exceeds the button press threshold, the Action goes from `Started` to `Performed`. One callback occurs on [`InputAction.performed`](../api/UnityEngine.InputSystem.InputAction.html#UnityEngine_InputSystem_InputAction_performed). The default value of the button press threshold is defined in the [input settings](../api/UnityEngine.InputSystem.InputSettings.html#UnityEngine_InputSystem_InputSettings_defaultButtonPressPoint). However, an individual control can [override](../api/UnityEngine.InputSystem.Controls.ButtonControl.html#UnityEngine_InputSystem_Controls_ButtonControl_pressPoint) this value.
```

Reviewer: Rephrased this to read easier - if you have a complex parenthetical in the middle of a sentence, moving the parenthetical to the end of the paragraph can make the whole paragraph easier to parse.

Author: Pushed

> 3. Once the Action has `Performed`, if all Control then go back to a level of actuation at or below the [release threshold](../api/UnityEngine.InputSystem.InputSettings.html#UnityEngine_InputSystem_InputSettings_buttonReleaseThreshold), the Action goes from `Performed` to `Canceled`. One call occurs to [`InputAction.canceled`](../api/UnityEngine.InputSystem.InputAction.html#UnityEngine_InputSystem_InputAction_canceled).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Once the Action has `Performed`, if all Controls then go back to a level of actuation at or below the [release threshold](../api/UnityEngine.InputSystem.InputSettings.html#UnityEngine_InputSystem_InputSettings_buttonReleaseThreshold), the Action goes from `Performed` to `Canceled`. One call occurs to [`InputAction.canceled`](../api/UnityEngine.InputSystem.InputAction.html#UnityEngine_InputSystem_InputAction_canceled).
```

Author: Pushed

4. If the Action never went to `Performed`, it will go to `Canceled` as soon as all Controls are released. One call occurs to [`InputAction.canceled`](../api/UnityEngine.InputSystem.InputAction.html#UnityEngine_InputSystem_InputAction_canceled).

> [`PassThrough`](Actions.md#pass-through) type Actions have a simpler behavior. The Input System doesn't try to track bound Controls as a single source of input but instead, it triggers a `Performed` callback for each value change.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[`PassThrough`](Actions.md#pass-through) type Actions have a simpler behavior. The Input System doesn't try to track bound Controls as a single source of input. Instead, it triggers a `Performed` callback for each value change.
```

Author: Pushed

|__Callback__|[`InputActionType.Value`](Actions.md#value)|[`InputActionType.Button`](Actions.md#button)|[`InputActionType.PassThrough`](Actions.md#pass-through)|
|-----------|-------------|------------|-----------------|

> |[`started`](../api/UnityEngine.InputSystem.InputAction.html#UnityEngine_InputSystem_InputAction_started)|Control(s) changed value away from its default value.|Button started being pressed but has not necessarily crossed the press threshold yet|First Control actuation after Action was enabled.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|[`started`](../api/UnityEngine.InputSystem.InputAction.html#UnityEngine_InputSystem_InputAction_started)|Control(s) changed value away from the default value.|Button started being pressed but has not necessarily crossed the press threshold yet.|First Control actuation after Action was enabled.|
```

Author: Pushed
